# 研究讨论

This is the first study to examine the applicability (i.e., construct validity and reliability) of a CODA test in elite-level ARs. The results of this study showed that the 10-8-8-10 test did not discriminate between ARs of different competitive levels and to possess good short-term reliability. Furthermore, the 10-8-8-10 test showed to have high face validity considered as perceived test relevance (i.e., from large to very-large relevance) by a panel of experienced AR authorities. Consequently, this original investigation represents the first step in the identification and assessment of a valid and reliable AR COD test.

Construct validity is usually assumed as a prerequisite of test applicability in sport science (28). Indeed with this aspect of criterion-based validity, authors usually examine the sensitivity of a test in discriminating between athletic populations belonging to different competitive levels assumed as construct (18). This criterion-based validity feature is assumed as a viable strategy to performance prediction and talent selection and identification in sport science (17,19,23). Furthermore, it is suggested to provide valuable information for training prescription when dealing with youth and elitelevel athletes (29,30). Despite the interest of this aspect of criterion-based validity, detection of construct validity does not provide evidence of cause and effect relationships "per se" (19,28). Indeed construct validity when assuming qualitative criteria for conceptualization (i.e., elite vs. nonelite level) may not provide a clear reflection of the supporting cause of status difference. Specifically, the competitive status may be the consequence of difference in skill level, training background, and or genetic factors (29). Consequently, to gain meaningful information from this particular aspect of criterion-based validity, the items determining the construct definition must be carefully set (19,28). In this research design, we operated control over construct (i.e., competitive level) supporting variables testing 2 population of AR (i.e., AR<sub>A-B</sub> and AR<sub>LP</sub>) after the completion of a similar training program. This was undertaken with the very intention to experimentally account for differences in training background because of competitive-level membership. Indeed in Italy, ARs reach the semiprofessional status only when affiliation with the higher national competitive level is awarded (Serie A and B), and this considerably impacts the training load in terms of frequency of weekly training sessions, volume, and intensity (32,34). As a result, differences in test performance may be the consequence of superior training effort and is reasonably considered as test bias in talent identification conduct.

To account for training bias for construct validity of 10-8-8-10 test, we assumed control over short-term (i.e., 6 weeks) preexperimentation training background for the AR groups considered in this study. Analysis of training loads assumed as percentage of time devoted to physiological abilities considered as determinants of elite-level AR performance (i.e., Endurance, Sprint and Agility, Repeated Sprint Ability and Flexibility) showed no significant differences between all the considered physical abilities except flexibility (10,11,20,25). This provided support to the experimental purpose of implementing similar training stimuli to the 2 competitive level different AR populations.

Results showed that no significant difference between means was detected for the 10-8-8-10 test performance across competitive levels (i.e., AR<sub>A-B</sub> vs. AR<sub>LP</sub>). The absence of competitive-level sensitivity of the 10-8-8-10 test was further supported by ROC analysis that showed balance between sensitivity and specificity as represented by the AUC value (= 0.49). In soccer, refereeing competitive-level progression parallels age progression because experience is considered as an attribute of skill development in elite level soccer refereeing (5,27). Consequently, impairment in physical performance as a result of aging may be expected in soccer refereeing (3,6). A number of studies have shown that age-related impairment in physical performance is expected in the neuromuscular performance domain as soccer officials get older in the progression of their competitive careers (3,5,27). In this study, despite a significant older mean age of AR<sub>A-B</sub>, no significant differences were detected in CODA mainly considered as a neuromuscular physical ability (2,26). Furthermore, no significant association between age and the 10-8-8-10 test performance was detected when examining pooled data (n = 100, r = 0.03, p = 0.74, 95% CI 20.16 to 0.23). This contrasts with previous studies that addressed the effect of age on speed and explosive strength in FR (3,6). Although comparison between studies is difficult to be performed as different designs were used, it could be speculated that control over training loads may have had an effect over the lack of difference in neuromuscular performance (i.e., 10-8-8-10 test) between competitive levels in this study (3,6).

This evidence suggests that the 10-8-8-10 test may be successfully used to detect CODA of AR across the competitive levels and considered as a reflection of individual abilities. This is of particular interest in soccer refereeing as fitness tests have shown to be affected by competitive-level associated variables such as training background and age (3,4,6,35). The findings of this study suggest that the 10-8-8-10 test performance may be considered as a trainable physical ability and that competitive-level independent normative may be considered in AR assessment. However, training studies examining the effect of CODA training load nature, volume, and intensity on 10-8-8-10 performance are warranted.

The 10-8-8-10 showed good absolute and relative reliability as reported by ICC and TEM calculations, respectively. Specifically, the 10-8-8-10 performance showed short-term variation (i.e., every other day testing) in the order of approximately 0.19 seconds (n = 66). This absolute variation in performance was higher (i.e., ~0.19 vs. 0.07 seconds) in size than the minimum worthwhile change estimated as fraction of pooled data *SD* (i.e., 0.20 x *SD*). It could be suggested that to detect meaningful information as per size of the effect of the intervention change, a higher proportion of *SD* should be used. Indeed, considering the estimation of the minimum worthwhile change instead of small effect (i.e., ES = 0.20) medium to large effect size (i.e., ES from 0.5 on), the test noise can be exceeded providing likelihood for more plausible changes.

Despite the encouraging results of this study, the implementation of our findings as an evaluation criterion of CODA of elite level ARs should be corroborated by further studies providing evidence for sensitivity as consequence of intervention (i.e., training studied) and seasonal variations of the 10-8-8-10 test (17,19). Normative values should be extended by examining 10-8-8-10 test performance in AR of a different age (i.e., younger), competitive levels (i.e., junior level), and gender (i.e., male vs. female ARs). Studies addressing a possible relationship between 10-8-8-10 test performance and the AR ability to keep last defender off-side line are warranted. Nonetheless, despite the relevance of COD for AR match performance, its assessment is overlooked in the current FIFA AR fitness test protocol.With this in mind, this original investigation represents the first step in the identification and assessment of a valid and reliable AR COD test. Given the strength of our findings, governing bodies should look to integrate the 10-8-8-10 test into the fitness test protocols devised for ARs, with scores &geq;9.67 being considered as a starting point for the empirical validation of minimum selection criteria for elite-level ARs.
