# 引言

Each and every match is controlled by a field referee (FR) who has full authority to enforce the Laws of the Game in connection with the match to which FR has been appointed (12). The FR controls and regulates players’ and coaches’ behavior during the match in cooperation with 2 assistant referees (ARs) whose main duty is to take a position to check the offside line, which is a priority in any case (12). Differently from the FR, who is free to move inside the soccer pitch, the ARs control the game moving parallel to the side line of the half pitch. As a result, the AR is expected to face the pitch while running. Preferentially, sideways movement should be used when judging offside because it gives the AR a better line of vision. Like the FRs also, the ARs must keep up with play whatever the tempo is (9). However, compared to FRs, the ARs experience lower physiological and physical demands during the game (13,20,21,25). Nevertheless, fatigue has been reported to be experienced by top-class AR and documented as decrements in ability to repeat sprint after the match (20).

During the game (i.e., ~90 minutes), the AR covers approximately 6–8 km of which 1.2 with sideways running (i.e., 16%) (20). In top-class ARs, 110 high-intensity running activities were reported with a mean duration of 2 seconds (20). Interestingly moving along the 50-m portion of the side line of competence, a top-level AR changes activity every 5 seconds totaling 1,053 activities (20). Given the highfrequency rate and variety in activity changes experienced by an elite-level AR during the game, the ability to perform sudden changes of direction, shifting from forward sprinting to sideways movement, assume face validity.

The possession of a well-developed physical fitness is considered as a necessary prerequisite for optimal positioning and work-rate output in AR (20). Indeed, distance from the offside line as determined by the second last defender position has been related to the sprint ability of the AR (20). Furthermore, association between individual aerobic fitness and the ability to repeat sprint with distance covered at high intensity during the game was reported (20).

The refereeing international governing body (UEFA, European Union of Association Football, and FIFA [International Union of Association Football]) acknowledged the need for physical fitness assessment of the elite level AR. This was accomplished requiring a number of field tests aiming to evaluate AR repeated sprint ability (6 x 40-m sprints) and intermittent high-intensity endurance (30–40") before top competitions (33). These tests although significantly stressing the physiological characteristics of the AR possess low face validity as per distance considered and exercise mode used (33). Indeed, they consider only line running, neglecting sideways running considered as a specific of AR performance (20). Furthermore, they do not evaluate the ability to perform sudden changes of direction, repeated changes, and also the specific distances experienced by AR during the most demanding phases of the game (20). Unfortunately, to the best of this study authors’ knowledge, no study has been published in scientific journals that proposed and examined the validity (i.e., face and construct validity) and reliability of a test for change of direction ability (CODA) for ARs.

Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine the applicability of a new field test (i.e., 10-8-8-10) aiming to assess CODA of elite level AR involving forward and sideways shuttle running. In the pursuit of this aim, construct validity and reliability of the 10-8-8-10 test were assessed. Before the experimental procedures, face validity was established using time–motion analysis and expert judgment procedures.
