# 研究方法

## 实验方法

<p style="text-indent: 2em;">精英级助理裁判员在全场比赛中大约会进行 1053 次活动变化，其中大部分是随比赛发展（如越位线的变化）做出的反应<sup>20</sup>。因此，助理裁判员必须针对视觉信号（如最后第二名防守队员的位置）做出反应，采取合理的变向动作；这通常要求裁判员尽全力完成连续的侧向往返跑<sup>20,21,25</sup>。研究表明，助理裁判员离越位线越近，就能拥有更好的视野，以做出正确的判罚，避免产生错误的旗语<sup>13,14</sup>。因此，变向能力应当被视为合理跑位的前提，并根据助理裁判员的实际比赛需求进行评估和训练<sup>13,14,26</sup>。变向能力也应当被视为灵活性的功能前提，针对进行中的动作采取变向反应<sup>26</sup>。在这方面，10-8-8-10 测试是首个被系统性提出的用于评估精英级助理裁判员变向能力的简易场地测试。由于灵活性和变向能力尚未建立黄金标准，因此在这一阶段，可以由专家来判断测试的比赛相关性，并通过定性比赛分析来评估 10-8-8-10 测试的信度<sup>19</sup>。</p>

The 10-8-8-10 test was developed qualitatively by examining the activity pattern of Italian elite-level ARs during official championships. The development of the activity pattern considered in the 10-8-8-10 test was undertaken according to the distance and time reported for the mean sprint coverage in scientific reports published and adjusted for test feasibility to provide consistent data collection (20,21,25). Specifically, forward running was assumed as 10 m according to the average time scored by AR in a preliminary pilot study and usual discrete sprint time revealed by time motion analysis (i.e., 2 seconds) (20). The sideward shuttle-running pattern used in the 10-8-8-10 test was considered as a consequence of the AR’s most frequent action of choice aiming to remain inline with the second last defender. The shuttle running (i.e., involving start and end test on the same line) nature of the 10- 8-8-10 test was chosen for relevance tomatch demands and for test feasibility (i.e., to ease timing).

The 10-8-8-10 test involves the AR sprinting forward for 10 m and rapidly performing two 8-m sideways shuttle runs having as reference the 10-m end line (i.e., change of direction line). Once the two 8-m sideway shuttle runs are completed, the AR sprints back to the start line to complete the 10-8-8-10 test (10 + 8 + 8 + 10 m = 36 m). During the 10-8-8-10 test, the AR must have his or her forward foot stepping on the reference line (i.e., at 10 m at the 8-m lines) at each direction change. Only trials that were performed in compliance with the explained test procedures were considered for analysis. Before the 10-8-8-10 test, all participants were familiarized with the test rules and allowed for practice trials.

Construct validity was assessed comparing 50 AR randomly chosen from the relative competitive cohorts (Serie A-B and Can-Pro, n = 90 and 200, respectively). Construct validity has been used to assess the sensitivity of a test to discriminate between players of different competitive levels (17,24). With these criterion-based validity differences, once detected, are difficult to be explained unless an accurate control over possible intervening variables is exerted (28). To operate control over the possible training effect on test performance in this population of AR, the experimental procedures were intentionally undertaken after the preparation phase of the competitive season. This was done with the aim to account for possible differences in training background affecting physical performance (i.e., 10-8-8-10 test) across the considered competitive levels. During this preparation phase, all the ARs involved undertook a common supervised training program aiming to develop the fitness determinant of match performance (20,25). Compliance with the training procedures was assured with the help of certified AR strength and conditioning coaches appointed by the Italian Soccer Referees Association (AIA). Training load was assumed as time devoted for the development of the following fitness categories: endurance, sprint and agility, repeated-sprint ability, and flexibility (10,11).

Before the commencement of the procedures used in this study, face validity was gained by a questionnaire in which experts (i.e., current and former top-class AR, n = 20) rated the 10-8-8-10 using a 1–5 scale for specificity (i.e., test relevance for AR performance: 1 = trivial, 2 = small, 3 = medium, 4 = large, and 5 = very large). The overall ratings (n = 20) for the 10-8-8-10 were "large" to "very large" (n = 4 and 16 of 20, respectively).

## 实验对象

Participants were 100 ARs belonging to the AIA who were appointed for officiating in the 2009–2010 Serie A-B (n = 50, AR<sub>A-B</sub>, age 37 ± 2.9 years, height 1.78 ± 6.9 cm, body mass 74 ± 6.9 kg) and Lega Pro (n = 50, AR<sub>LP</sub>, age 34 ± 2.0 years, height 1.77 ± 4.9 cm, body mass 75 ± 4.9 kg) Italian professional championships. The ARs had at least 2 years (range 2–8 years) of experience at their respective competitive level (i.e., Serie A-B and Lega Pro, respectively) and performed at least 3 training sessions a week for the development of specific fitness. All ARs were tested during the training camp held at the end of the precompetitive season (i.e., July–August). To avoid undue stress on the AR in the days preceding the implementation of the 10-8-8-10 test, training loads were intentionally reduced, and familiarization sessions were considered. The ARs were advised to maintain a regular diet during the day before testing (i.e., 60, 25, and 15% of carbohydrates, fat, and protein, respectively) and to refrain from smoking and caffeinated drinks during the 2 hours preceding testing. To avoid hypohydration, ARs were allowed to drink fluids "ad libitum". Written informed consent was obtained from all the participants after familiarization and explanation of the benefit and risks involved in the procedures of this study. All participants were informed that they were free to withdraw from the study at any time without penalty. The Institutional Research Board (Settore Tecnico AIA, Modulo per la preparazione Atletica) provided clearance for the procedures before the commencement of this study. All procedures were carried out in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki of the World Medical Association as regards the conduct of clinical research.

## 实验流程

All the test procedures were performed at the same hours of the day (i.e., 9–11 AM) in the absence of wind and in similar environmental conditions (i.e., 23–26°C, 50–60% humidity). The 10-8-8-10 test was performed at the end of a standard warm-up consisting each time of 15 minutes of slow jogging (i.e., 2–3 of Börg’s CR 10 scale) followed by static stretching (5 minutes) and agility and sprint practice (8 minutes) (1,7). The AR performed 3 trials of the 10-8-8-10 test interspersed by 2 minutes of passive recovery in between. All tests were performed on the same synthetic turf usually used for fitnesstraining sessions. The 10-8-8-10 test performance was assumed as total time and assessed using a telemetric photocells system (Polifemo Kit Racetime2, Microgate, Bolzano, Italy). To avoid undue switch-on of the timing system, ARs had to position the front foot immediately before a line set 0.50 m from the photocell beam. The photocell beam was positioned at 0.5-m height and 1.5 m apart. All the ARs performed the 10-8-8-10 test with a self-administered start, and maximum performance was induced through strong verbal encouragements by the test leader (i.e., first author) during all the test duration.

The 10-8-8-10 test reliability was established by having ARs (n = 64) performing the test under the above declared conditions on 3 different occasions separated by a recovery (a low training load session) day. Best and average 10-8-8-10 performances were used for calculation.

## 统计分析

The results are expressed as mean ± *SD* and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). Normality assumption was verified using the Shapiro–Wilk *W*-test. Student’s *t*-tests (unpaired design) were used to determine any significant difference between the 2 competitive levels (i.e., AR<sub>A-B</sub> and AR<sub>LP</sub>). Homogeneity of variance was tested with the Bartlett test. The effect size (ES) was calculated to assess meaningfulness of differences (8). Effect sizes of >0.8, between 0.8 and 0.5, between 0.5 and 0.2, and <0.2 were considered as large, moderate, small, and trivial, respectively. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was used to assess relative reliability of the 10-8-8-10 test. Absolute reliability was assessed calculating the typical error of measurement (TEM) according to Hopkins (15). Sensitivity of the 10-8-8-10 test was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) statistics. To allow ROC calculations, ARs were dichotomized according to their competitive level (i.e., AR<sub>AB</sub> and AR<sub>LP</sub>). Normative data were reported as interquartile range (31). The smallest
worthwhile change was assumed as 0.2I according to Hopkins at al. (16). Significance was set at 5% (p &leq; 0.05).
